# python-probability-funcs
Some probability functions, bisection search, and a fraction class.

Primary contents: miscellaneous convenience functions for calculating properties of continuous and discrete
	probability distributions, and for generating random variates from some distributions.
	E.g., crv_var_exp calculates the variance and expectation for an arbitrary probability distribution.
	correlation and covariance calculate the correlation and covariance, respectively, between two data sets.
	pnorm calculates the normal CDF.
	These functions use my implementation of numerical integration, which sucks compared to 
	Scipy.integrate.quad.
The corresponding functions in Scipy and numpy, where they exist, are undoubtedly better in 
	every meaningful way.
That said, my rgeom and rbinom functions are actually somewhat faster than Scipy.geom(p).rvs(n) and
	Scipy.binom(p).rvs(n) when p is fairly high (say, greater than 1/3) and n is small (say less than 20).
	In any other regime, my functions are much slower.
	
Also contains my implementations of bisection search, both for determining whether a value is in a list (bindex)
	and for quickly finding the closest value in a list (closebin). Because one can never have too many 
	ways to do bisection search.
	
Contains "sample", a function for biased and unbiased sampling with replacement, which is the foundation
	for my functions for generating random variates.

Contains "frac", a convenience class I made that implements fractions that can be added, multiplied,
	divided, etc., just like normal ints and floats. frac is used to enable the calculation of binomial
	probabilities for very large values of nCk, because multiplying a float by a huge number generated by
	math.factorial leads to overflow errors.

Contains "polynom", a convenience class that implements polynomials.

For those who are wondering, yes, I DID find out about the numpy.poly1d convenience class 
	(which is better than my polynom, FYI) and the built-in "fractions" module,
	but only AFTER I made those implementations.
